There's that music again. Well, now — look who's back. Welcome back to Shiloh Creek, little ones. And here's a secret, just for you: it isn't only a new morning down at the water today. It's a whole new season. A brand-new start for all of us.
A new SEASON?! Old Timber — does that mean it's the BEST morning ever?! I think it does! I can feel it in my paws!
Ha — there's Bongo, awake before the dew's even dry. Hold on to that, little bear. A new season means new stories — more mornings, more mischief, more of the things we learn together by the water. I'm so glad you all came back.
Let me ask you something. Did you ever have a morning go wrong before it even got started? You spill the milk, you stub your toe, you can't find your other shoe — and you think, well, that's it, the whole day is spoiled now, might as well not even try. Have you ever felt that way?
Here's the wonderful thing. God made the morning to begin again, every single day. And a morning — well, a morning's allowed to start over even inside itself. I'm going to tell you about the day our Bongo learned that. The Bible's got a warm little line about it, too. We'll come to it, down by the water.
Now, this happened on the first bright morning of the new season, when the dew was still sitting on the grass. And our Bongo — big-hearted, soft-pawed, certain as could be — set right to work on the finest morning the creek had ever seen.
Best morning EVER! I can feel it in my paws! I'm gonna make breakfast for everybody — a great big bowl of the sweetest berries on the whole creek. I got this!
He lifted the whole bowl of berries high over his head — the way Bongo does when he's very sure of himself. And that's exactly when his back paw found a slippery patch of moss.
Whoa — whoa — NO — the berries! All the berries! Oh, they're everywhere. ...Okay. Okay, that's fine. That was just one thing. Good mornings can have one thing.
A TRAGEDY of berries! I shall compose an ODE!
Please don't compose an ode. It's berries.
That's one thing. I'm just gonna — I'm gonna keep a little tally. For science.
Bongo! Good MORNING! Oh, I've missed creek mornings so much — it's my first one back, and it already has YOU in it, spilling berries everywhere. I'm so happy to be home.
Fern! You're up! Right — watch THIS one, this'll fix everything — I'll fetch the cold dew-water for everybody's tea. Nice and full to the top. Coming through!
Filled right to the brim — see? Steady, steady, comin' through, comin' through — and turning around niiice and — whoop — WHOA — my own foot! I caught the handle with my OWN foot!
Okay — okay. Bongo. That's the SECOND thing. I'm counting — I can't help it, I count things — that's two things, and the sun is barely UP. Do you want me to build you a no-spill bucket? I can build you a no-spill bucket.
Two things! TWO! The bear hath spilled, and the bear hath sloshed! What FRESH disaster shall the morning conjure NEXT?
...Garingo. ...You're not helping. ...You're narrating.
It's okay, Bongo. It's just a little water. The grass will drink it right up.
No no, I don't need a bucket, I need — I need to RESET it. Big finish! I'll sing the wake-up song! Everybody loves the wake-up song! Here it goes, the great big high note! Goooood morning, sunshiiine, wake up, wake up, it's a braaand-new daaay!
Now, Bongo knows the wake-up song the way he knows his own paws. But this morning, with the berries and the bucket weighing on him, he opened his mouth for the high note — and out came a sound like a duck stepping on a kazoo.
...It was a brave note. It just went somewhere nobody could follow.
Did you HEAR that? That wasn't even a note. That was a sound a note makes when it gives up. Three for three. The berries, the bucket, the song.
BEHOLD! A morning of GRAND catastrophe! Spilled fruit, a flood of dew, and a wake-up note that has woken NOBODY but frightened a passing moth! Bongo, my friend — this is the stuff of EPICS.
...Garingo. ...It's three small things. ...The morning is fine.
Now, while Bongo stood there in the middle of his spilled, sloshed, off-key morning, something small was happening down along the bank — something he hadn't noticed yet. The morning-glory flowers were opening.
You may have seen them, little ones — those bright trumpet flowers on the climbing vines. Here's the wonder of them: every single morning, the vine opens up brand-new flowers. Yesterday's blooms are all spent and folded away by evening — but today's are fresh, wide open, never been opened before. The vine doesn't fix up the old ones. It just makes new ones, every dawn that ever comes.
That's it. I'm calling it. This morning is OFFICIALLY ruined. I'm going back to bed, and I'm pulling the leaves over my head, and I'm just gonna skip the whole day and try again tomorrow.
Oh — Bongo, wait. Don't go back in yet.
No, Fern, it's spoiled. I had it all planned. The best morning. And I spilled it, and I sloshed it, and I sang it wrong. ...Every part I touched, I wrecked. So the whole day's wrecked now. That's just how it works.
...I really wanted it to be good. I wanted to do one nice thing before everybody was even awake.
...And now it just feels like the whole morning has my mess all over it. Like I can't even see the good part anymore.
Now, nobody rushed him. We let him be sad a minute, the way you do for a friend. And then I sat myself down beside him in the wet grass, slow as I do.
Bongo. Come here a moment, the little one. Let me ask you just one thing — you've watched those morning-glory vines down the bank your whole life. After a big storm — a real wild night, thunder and wind, the works — what does that vine do the very next morning?
...It opens new ones. ...Same as always. Doesn't matter how bad the night was — yesterday's flowers are gone, but the vine just... puts out brand-new ones. Fresh ones. Like the storm wasn't even — ...oh.
...There it is, Bongo. ...The morning doesn't keep score. ...It just opens.
You don't have to skip the day, Bongo. You can just... start the morning over. Right now. The berries and the bucket already happened — but the next minute hasn't. The next minute's brand-new. God made it that way.
Ooh — ooh — yes! A do-over! Bongo, you can have a SECOND morning! Same morning — fresh try! No engineering required, which, honestly, for me, is a real growth moment.
A second morning. ...Okay. Okay! I can do that. Watch — I'm starting over. Good MORNING, creek! Brand-new Bongo, brand-new morning, and THIS time — slow paws.
Slow paws. SLOW paws. Look at me — I'm basically a tortoise now. No offense, Shelly.
Look at you go — slow and careful! Not one berry dropped. And the tea, no slosh at all. Now the note, Bongo — try the wake-up note again. Go on.
...Clear as a bell. ...On a warm morning. ...See? ...It was always going to be fine.
Not one berry dropped! I checked! I always check! Bongo, you did a PERFECT morning — on the SECOND try — with zero contraptions! I'm a little jealous, honestly.
And LO — the SAME morning, RESTORED! A tale of ruin and RETURN! ...I shall need no trumpets after all. The note was quite enough.
...See, Bongo. ...You didn't need a brand-new day. ...You just needed the next minute.
Just the next minute. ...You know what, Fern? I'm really glad I didn't crawl back under those leaves. I'd have missed my own best morning. The SECOND one.
Me too. And now I get to share it with you. That's a pretty good first morning home.
Okay, everybody settle in — berries that STAYED in the bowl, tea with zero slosh. Bongo, this is officially a good morning. ...So. What'd you figure out?
I think I had it backwards. I thought one spilled thing spoiled the whole day. But the morning didn't care about my mess. It just... let me start over. You always get to start over. That's the best part.
And it's true every single morning. Not just today. Tomorrow gets to be brand-new too. However yesterday went — you wake up, and you get a clean try.
Mm. You found it your own selves. And here's the warm little line I promised you. It's from the Bible — from a book called Lamentations. Chapter three, verses twenty-two and twenty-three. It goes like this.
They are new every morning: great is thy faithfulness.
Now, that's an old, beautiful way of saying something simple. God's kindness never runs out. It doesn't get used up by yesterday. It's brand-new every single morning — fresh as those morning-glory vines, opening up new flowers on the bank. However your last morning went, little ones — this one is new. You get to begin again.
And now — a true thing, told grandly. Professor Hoot's Totally True Facts.
Professor Hoot here, with a fact that is completely true. Every morning, just as the light comes up, the birds of the wood begin to sing — one after another, until the whole wood is singing — and that is called the dawn chorus. A chorus, children, means a great many voices all singing together at the very same time.
And here is the clever part. The early morning air is often still and quiet, which helps a song carry clearly across the wood. So the birds make the most of that calm hour. A most agreeable arrangement. Good morning to you.
And do you know why they bother? Each little bird is singing to be heard — calling for a mate, and letting the others know this patch of wood is his. Brave, for something so small. Good morning to you.
And before we go — three frogs, one enormous question. The Mudpuppy Minutes.
Today on Mudpuppy Minutes — since everybody's so excited about MORNING — we will explain... how does morning actually HAPPEN? Where does it come FROM?
EASY. There's a big switch. Way up high. And every morning, somebody flips it — and the sky goes ON. Click. Morning. At night they flip it OFF again. That's why it's dark. The switch. It's the only explanation.
AND ALSO — no, wait. There's no switch. The sun was there the whole time. The ground just slowly turns around, and turns around, until our side rolls back to face the sun again. Morning's just... our side coming back to the light. ...Huh. ...That actually makes sense.
...Wait. ...Splash. ...You're RIGHT. The sun never left. We just turned away and then turned back. ...That's — that's the real one.
And here's the BEST bit — it means the sun never misses. Not one single morning. It's been turning up every day forever. The most faithful thing there is.
Oh no — too sensible! A turning ground? BORING. Take it ALL back. ...Mudpuppies — we have solved it! Morning happens because the sky gets HUNGRY for us, and it opens its big bright eye to find where we went. And that's why you wake up. The end.
Mm. Now, Splash had the right of it before they talked themselves out of it, little ones. The sun doesn't switch on, and the sky isn't hungry. The sun is always shining — our round earth simply turns, and turns, until our side rolls back to face it. That's the morning, true as can be. The frogs can have their hungry sky for a laugh — but here's the part worth keeping: the light is always there, waiting, and the turning world brings you right back round to it. Every single morning. Now THAT'S the honest wonder of it.
I'm really glad my first morning back was this one. A messy start, and then a brand-new one. It's good to be home, everybody.
It's good to have you home, Fern. So that's the story of the morning that went wrong, and then started over, and turned out just fine. Remember it, little ones — whatever yesterday was, you wake up new. New every morning. New every season. Welcome back. Until the next breeze brings us together, my friends.
And wherever you go out there — if a morning goes sideways on you, don't you throw the whole day away. Just start it over. Begin again, little ones. There's always a fresh one waiting.
See you next time... somewhere in Shiloh Creek.